** LowCode and EasyCoder

LowCode is a means to construct applications without being dependent on professional programmers. Typically, a LowCode tool presents the user with the means to select blocks visually and wire them up with simplified coding. The aim is to create a working prototype quickly, and only then decide if there is a need to rewrite it in a conventional programming language.

**_EasyCoder_** sits on the boundary between LowCode and conventional coding, having some of the attributes of each. It replaces the visual environment with code, so everything is done with text files. This has some long-term benefits as no development environment is needed. Plain text is far more resistant to obsolescence than anything relying on complex enviroments. The code itself is far simpler than any conventional alternative because **_EasyCoder_** implements a language that is closer to English; one that can be easily understood by non-coders who are familiar with the target domain. The domain in question is the browser.

**_EasyCoder_** lets you describe the appearance and behavior of a web page in an approximation to plain English. This may not appeal to those who prefer to drag visual blocks around but it's far more versatile. The blocks exist as words in the language; words that describe objects with properties and behaviors.

As an example, a Google Map is an object of type `map`. Its size and position are governed by the container - another object - in which it is placed. Its basic properties are latitude, longitue and zoom, which are enough to get it visible, but it may have many others. I say 'may' because as with our own language, English, new properties can be added without the need to alter existing ones. The additions are seamless in that to the coder they all fit into the same general syntax and can be learned when needed so there's very little to learn. The same goes for behaviors, which are the actions taken in response to events coming from user actions or from elsewhere.

**_EasyCoder_** is infinitely extendable in a way that is invisible to users, by means of a plug-in mechanism that adds object types, properties and behaviors to the system. Plug-ins are written by professional programmers and can encapsulate any degree of complexity. Our aim is not to do away with programmers, merely to free them to deal with the more intricate and complex parts of the programming landscape. The rest can be done by people with domain-related skills, just as for LowCode and NoCode. This is the most efficient way to deploy scarce resources.